{{{
  "title": "Configuring System Notification Emails",
  "date": "9-21-2016",
  "author": "Bryan Dreyer",
  "attachments": [],
  "contentIsHTML": false
}}}

### Overview

The CenturyLink Cloud Platform periodically sends informational emails and alerts notifying user of any Platform changes, incidents, and scheduled maintenance periods.  These informational emails are separate from the environment-specific alerts which might be generated by individual servers (such as high resource utilization, connectivity, etc). System notification emails are only sent to users who have the "Account Administrator" role permission assigned on their user account.

Many of our enterprise customers have roles within their organization who need to be apprised of system maintenance or other events, but they  are not necessarily daily users of the Platform.  This article covers how to properly configure system notifications for this scenario.

### Audience

All users of CenturyLink Cloud

### Prerequisites
Must be assigned the Account Administrator role permission

### Steps

When you'd like to have notifications go out to additional email addresses, there are two methods to ensure that the appropriate users receive notifications.

1. Create a user account for each resource requiring notification, and assign them the Account Admin role pemission.
2. Create an internal distribution list (i.e. CLCNotifications@companyname.com), create an account in the Control Portal using that email address and assign it the Account Administrator role permission.  Please note that a "Welcome" email  with password is emailed to each newly created user in the Control Portal; if you do not desire this information to be disseminated, it is suggested to create the distribution list, then create the user in the Control Portal, finally adding the appropriate internal resources to the distribution list.

Please note that creating these user accounts only ensures that they will receive system-wide email notifications; if you wish to configure environmental alarms and alerts, it is a separate process carried out at either the server group or individual server level.
