{{{
"title": "Billing invoices",
"date": "07-10-2018",
"author": "Guillermo Sanchez",
"attachments": [],
"contentIsHTML": false
}}}

### Billing in separate invoices

**In this article:**

* [Overview](#overview)
* [Audience](#audience)
* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
* [Billing in a single invoice](#billing-in-a-single-invoice)
* [Setting up billing for multiple invoices](#setting-up-billing-for-multiple-invoices)
* [Getting General Support](#getting-general-support)

### Overview

This article is meant to assist Cloud Application Manager customers who wants to receive their CenturyLink bill splitted into multiple invoices.

### Audience

Cloud Application Manager organization administrators.

### Prerequisites

An active Cloud Application Manager account.

### Billing in a single invoice

This is the default behavior for any Cloud Application Manager customer. All usage and support charges may be included into a single bill for the whole organization.

A single invoice will be generated with all the corresponding charges for the customer organization.

### Setting up billing for multiple invoices

For setting up Cloud Application Manager to generate multiple invoices aligned by line of business of the customer organization, you will need to match your line of business structure with the Cost Center structure in Cloud Application Manager.

To do so, you must:

1. Create a separate **Cost Center** for each line of business that is using Cloud Application Manager in your organization.
1. Create a **Workspace** into each **Cost Center**.
1. Create the corresponding **Providers** on each **Workspace** of the **Cost Centers**. Please, note that every subsequent cost associated to a **Provider** will be summarized into the **Cost Center** that owns the **Workspace** where the **Provider** is defined into.
1. Open a Support Ticket requesting separate invoices by **Cost Centers** and CenturyLink Billing team will assign a separate Billing Account Number for each Cost Center and makes sure that a separate invoice is generated by CostCenter.

Once the ticket is addressed, you will receive an Invoice for each **Cost Center** you have defined in Cloud Application Manager.

### Getting General Support

Customers can contact the CenturyLink Global Operations Support center (support desk) directly for getting help with Cloud Application Manager as well as any other supported product that they’ve subscribed to.  Below are three ways to get help.

**Contact:**

1. **Phone:** 888-638-6771

2. **Email:** incident@centurylink.com

3. **Create Ticket in Cloud Application Manager:** Directly within the platform, users can “Create Ticket” by clicking on the “?” symbol in upper right corner near the users log-in profile icon.  This takes users directly to the Managed Servicers Portal where they can open, track and review status of issues that have been raised with the support desk.  Additionally, this is how a TAM can be engaged as well.

**Instructions:**

1. Provide your name
2. CAM account name
3. A brief description of your request or issue for case recording purposes

The support desk will escalate the information to the Primary TAM and transfer the call if desired.
