{{{
  "title": "FAQ - Load Balancer as a Service",
  "date": "08-25-2016",
  "author": "Matthew Farrell",
  "attachments": [],
  "related-products" : [],
  "contentIsHTML": false,
  "sticky": true
}}}

Audience
--

This article is to support customers of both Shared Load Balancer and
Load Balancer as a Service (LBaaS). The responses in this FAQ document
aim to provide additional clarity and expectations to both existing
Shared Load Balancer customers as well as to new prospective LBaaS
customers while we work to introduce LBaaS.

**Q:** What is Load Balancer as a Service (LBaaS)?

**A:** CenturyLink Load Balancer as a Service (LBaaS) helps you build
highly scalable and highly available applications by providing
application-level (HTTP & TCP) load balancing. It also offers various
persistence methods to ensure that a user, once connected, continues to
be connected to the same application instance.

LBaaS is a load balancing solution that is meant to provide both server
load balancing and high availability in an industry standard.

**Q:** What’s the difference between CenturyLink Cloud’s existing Shared
Load Balancer service and CenturyLink Cloud’s new Load Balancer as a
Service (LBaaS)?

**A:** LBaaS provides for all of the existing functionality or our
Shared Load Balancer Service. Every feature that existed previously for
SLB will be present inside of LBaaS. LBaaS however provides additional
features such as:

-   TCP load Balancing

-   Load balance on any port

-   Configurable health checks

**Q:** What Data Center(s) is Load Balancer as a Service (LBaaS) available
in?

**A:** As of 8/26/2016. LBaaS will be initially introduced in both UC1
and VA1. We will be expanding LBaaS Data Center availability over the
coming months! Be on the lookout for future communications announcing
newly enabled LBaaS Data Centers!

**Q:** What if I require a Load Balancer but I don’t have a presence in
an LBaaS enabled Data Center (UC1, VA1)?

**A:** Our Shared Load Balancer service is still available for use in
all non-LBaaS enabled Data Centers. Unfortunately, customers will not
immediately get the benefit of the advanced features provided by LBaaS
such as TCP Load Balancing, Load Balance on any port, and configurable
health checks. Rest assured, our goal is to quickly and seamlessly
integrate LBaaS into all of our Data Centers in short order!

**Q:** What do I do if I have an existing Shared Load Balancer in either
UC1 or VA1?

**A:** This is an easy one! You don’t have to do anything! However,
there is a catch (there’s always a catch!). All existing Shared Load
Balancer instances created prior to 8/25/2016 in both UC1 and VA1 will
remain in tact and operation just as they are today. Unfortunately
however, this means that those previous instances will not be LBaaS
enabled. We’re working on a feature that will allow for uninterrupted
upgrade from the existing Shared Load Balancer to LBaaS. Until that
feature is completed, customers can remain on SLB should they choose.

**Q:** As an existing Customer, how will this new service impact my
bill/invoice?

**A:** Good question! Our existing Shared Load Balancer service is
priced at $0.04/Load Balancer instance hour. Any existing load balancer
deployed in UC1 and VA1 prior to 8/25/2016 will continue to bill at this
rate. This also holds true for any data center that has not yet been
LBaaS-enabled.

Any new Load Balancer instance created in UC1 and VA1 on or after
8/25/2016 will be priced at the new LBaaS rate of $0.025/Load Balance
Instance hour coupled with $0.008/GB of data processed by the load
balancer.
