---
title: Best Practices and Preparation for a Virtual Machine/OVF/OVA Import
author: Jake Malmad
tags:
  - four
  - five
date: 8-19-2013
---

The CenturyLink Cloud Professional Services team imports images of existing physical or virtual servers directly onto the Platform, generally for compatibility/performance testing, benchmarking, or as part of an overall cloud migration strategy. There are additional knowledge base articles which outline the steps involved in exporting an existing virtual machine from various hypervisors (i.e. from&nbsp;[Xen](http://help.tier3.com/entries/21642619-Converting-a-Xen-Image-to-OVF-for-use-in-the-Tier-3-cloud), or&nbsp;[VMware Workstation](http://help.tier3.com/entries/23260901-Exporting-a-VM-to-an-OVF-from-VMware-Workstation-for-Import-into-the-Tier-3-Cloud)), however, this article servers to outline the best practices suggested for a successful import.

*   Prepare the required documentation. The minimal information required for importing an OVF/OVA file is:

*   Desired name of the cloud Virtual Machine or Appliance
*   Local administrator username and password
*   Operating System or base OS for Appliances (i.e. Windows 2008, R2, 2003 32bit, etc.)
*   Account and Group in the Control Portal that Virtual Machine(s) will be registered in
*   VLAN or Network the Virtual Machine is to utilize
*   Type of Storage (Standard or Premium) to be used for the Virtual Machine(s)*   Validate the [Guest Operating System is supported on the CenturyLink Cloud for Import](https://t3n.zendesk.com/entries/49946574-Supported-Guest-Operating-Systems-for-OVA-OVF-Import)
*   If exporting multiple Virtual Machines or a collection of Virtual Machines (such as a vAPP), it is recommended to export each VM individually. Individual files provide greater flexibility and reduce repeated upload in the event of file corruption (re-uploading a single server vs. the entire collection).

*   To reduce file transfer time, and ensure file integrity, it is recommended to use an archival tool (such as the open source 7zip) to compress the OVA/OVF. CenturyLink recommends 2-4GB increments.

*   Calculate a checksum to help ensure the integrity of your files. Both Microsoft and several 3<sup>rd</sup> parties provide checksum calculation utilities; likewise a package exists for all major linux distros. In addition, a checksum can be generated by most archival programs (WinZip, WinRar, 7zip, etc.)

*   Upload the OVF file to the appropriate datacenter. Make sure that the FTP server that you are uploading the OVF file to corresponds with the desired deployment datacenter, as this saves a great deal of time as the image does not need to be transferred for an additional time. &nbsp;The specific&nbsp;FTP URL and account information used for uploading the templates will be provided to you at the time the service task is performed&nbsp;as part of a service engagement. _(Do not use the FTP User login information from Control Portal. This FTP service is not for template upload. For more information about this, please reference the [KB article about proper FTP usage](https://t3n.zendesk.com/entries/48444870-FTP-Users-in-Control-Portal).)&nbsp;
_

*   Member servers may rely on domain controllers not present in the cloud 3 infrastructure to properly authenticate or execute policies- please take this into consideration when planning the upload priority, order and testing methodology. While not always possible, it is considered best practice disjoin the machine from the domain prior to exporting and then rejoin the domain once the import is complete, as the machine’s virtual hardware, SID and other descriptors will have changed.

*   Describe any dependencies,&nbsp;specific applications&nbsp;to be tested, or other non-standard configurations to be tested&nbsp;during import.

*   Please contact your account representative or email [noc@tier3.com](noc@tier3.com)&nbsp;to initiate a project importing the VM

Following these best practices will ensure a prompt and successful deployment of your Virtual Machine or Appliance onto the Tier 3 platform.&nbsp;

     