{{{
  "title": "AppFog University: SaaS vs. PaaS vs. IaaS ",
  "date": "1-20-2015",
  "author": "Chris Sterling",
  "attachments": [],
  "contentIsHTML": true
}}}


<p><strong>Overview<br /> </strong>In the following article, we aim to explore the three primary types of cloud services and to provide some understanding about how each differs from the others. In addition, we'll add some examples to the conversation in order to give a real-world sense of just how often you may have already interacted with several of these cloud types.<br /> <strong><br /> SaaS<br /> </strong>Let's start off with the easiest of the three to understand and use: SaaS, or Software-as-a-Service. SaaS, generally geared towards end-users, is almost always browser-based and requires no configuration by the customer. SaaS providers deal with the management of the application itself, the servers and other infrastructure it runs upon, scaling the environment, and the needed redundancy to ensure your data is safe. A SaaS user can ignore all of that. They simply log in to work in the environment and use as much or as little as they need. A few great examples of SaaS offerings that you may already be using today include Gmail, Salesforce, Mint, etc.</p>
<div>SaaS solutions are often the easiest for less-technical folks to equate with the "Cloud Concept" since the application and their user data is always available from anywhere they need it. When using SaaS, we do so with the presumption that the data is redundant and safe, and that nothing is stored on a user's local machine.<br /> <strong><br /> PaaS<br /> </strong>Moving down the stack to a bit greater complexity and flexibility is PaaS, or Platform-as-a-Service. The newest of the three, and arguably the "hottest" in the cloud space right now, PaaS systems enable application developers to easily deploy, test, update, and maintain all sorts of applications without any administration or operations headaches. PaaS systems contain the tools and frameworks needed to easily deploy websites, mobile apps, social apps, online games, etc. and developers do not have to be proficient in architecting and maintaining scalable, redundant cloud environments.<br /> <strong><br /> </strong>Generally, developers interface with a PaaS via a web console and alternatively, a CLI (command line interface) or API (application programming interface). While popular platforms such as Drupal, WordPress, MediaWiki, etc. can be easily deployable with a few clicks in most PaaS systems, generally developers need to have a substantial level of code deployment savvy-ness to be able to properly tune and build their own custom applications on a PaaS. Examples of PaaS providers include <a href="http://heroku.com">Heroku</a>, <a href="http://windowsazure.com">Microsoft Azure</a>, and <a href="http://appfog.com">AppFog</a>. It's important to remmeber that PaaS systems let developers do what they do best: focus on writing great code.<br /> <strong><br /> IaaS<br /> </strong>Finally, the most complex, but also the most flexible of the three, is IaaS, or Infrastructure as a Service. For customers who wish to have the maximum amount of control over their environment with root-level SSH access, an IaaS is the right choice for them. With most IaaS systems, users have almost the exact same control as they would with a traditional dedicated servers. The benefits to IaaS are numerous. Deployment of new virtual machines happens in minutes, scaling can happen automatically, backups and snapshotting can be performed easily,  and all of this handled at a very low price point, usually cents per hour.<br /> <strong><br /> </strong>The downside of IaaS is the substantial level of knowledge needed to properly develop and maintain the environment. Server Administrators and Architects normally need to be on staff, full-time, to address the needs of a complex IaaS environment. Common IaaS providers include Amazon Web Services (EC2) and Rackspace (Cloud Servers).<br /> <strong><br /> Other Terms &amp; Wrapping Up<br /> </strong>Along with these three main types of clouds, you may hear terms such as LBaaS (Load Balancing-as-a-Service), DBaaS (Database-as-a-Service), NaaS (Network-as-a-Service), etc. In future posts, we'll dive into each of these in greater detail.Hopefully, some baseline clarity has emerged concerning these three types of clouds. Feel free to comment below if you have any questions we can answer for you.<br /> </div>
